Add AV1155: Use the `field` keyword in auto-properties when additional logic is needed (#316)
dennisdoomen/CSharpGuidelines: _rules/1155.md

---
rule_id: 1155
rule_category: member-design
title: Use the `field` keyword in auto-properties when additional logic is needed
severity: 3
---

> C# 14 introduced the `field` keyword, which lets you access the compiler-generated backing field of an auto-property without having to declare a manual field. This keeps the property concise while still allowing validation or transformation logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
C# 14 introduced the `field` keyword, which provides access to the underlying storage of a property without the need to declare a private field. This eliminates boilerplate while still allowing validation or transformation logic. Furthermore, it protects against other members modifying the underlying value, which breaks encapsulation.
```
Referring to a "compiler-generated backing field" (an implementation detail) may not be easy for beginners to understand.

```csharp
// Before C# 14: required a manual backing field
private string name = string.Empty;
public string Name
{
    get => name;
    set => name = value?.Trim() ?? throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(value));
}

// With C# 14: use the field keyword
public string Name
{
    get;
    set => field = value?.Trim() ?? throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(value));

> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Before C# 14: required a manual backing field
private int maxLength;
public int MaxLength
{
    get => maxLength;
    set
    {
        ArgumentOutOfRangeException.ThrowIfLessThan(value, 0);
        maxLength = value;
    }
}

// With C# 14: use the field keyword
public int MaxLength
{
    get;
    set
    {
        ArgumentOutOfRangeException.ThrowIfLessThan(value, 0);
        field = value;
    }
}
```

The `?.` is a bit strange; it's flagged as redundant because the type is non-nullable.

<img width="598" height="106" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/624b1e6a-0f2b-4b4b-af2a-d20d5d13b058" />
